---
layout: recipe
title:  "Tostadas"
author: koalamama
categories: [ recipe ]
image: assets/images/bread3.jpeg
tags: []
published: true
excerpt: "On top of being particular about our eggs, my family has strong preferences on Mexican food. Tacos apparently are not just flat tacos."
---

Some families have strong opinions about how they like their eggs (e.g. scrambled, over medium, sunny-side up).  In addition to egg preferences, our family *have* to get their particular Mexican food item. My husband LOVES tostadas, my daughter LOVES burritos and my son LOVES quesadillas. Our house has an entire taqueria menu - minus tacos.

This <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/flour-tortilla">flour tortilla recipe</a> is the only way to satisfy all of their food preferences.
 
Tostadas (Pan fried tortillas) are now in rotation. 


### Ingredient

- 4 cups AP flour or whole wheat 
- ½ tsp salt
- ½ cup butter 
- 1 + 1/3 cup warm water
- 1 cup avocado oil (or another high temp oil)


### Directions

<h5 class="mb-1">Step 1</h5>
Slice butter into cubes and place butter into 1 cup of warm water. Set aside to allow water to melt some of the butter. 

<h5 class="mb-1">Step 2</h5>
In a large bowl, add flour & salt. Lightly mix then pour your butter water into your flour mixture. Mix until water is mostly incorporated. Slowly add additional 1/3 cup of warm water to mixture as you knead until all incorporated and smooth (about 10 minutes by hand) .

<h5 class="mb-1">Step 3</h5>
Cover dough with tea towel & let rest for 10 minutes. 

<h5 class="mb-1">Step 4</h5>
Split dough into 12 equal potions, roll into balls and cover. 

<h5 class="mb-1">Step 5</h5>
Roll each dough ball out to a thin 10" circle in diameter.

<h5 class="mb-1">Step 6</h5>
Get a cast iron or non-stick 10.5"+ pan hot. 

<h5 class="mb-1">Step 7</h5>
Place one tortilla on it when the side has bubbled up, flip, and bake until the other side has browned and bubbled. Place in a towel and cover to keep warm, and repeat until finished.

<h5 class="mb-1">Step 8</h5>
Heat 1 Cup avocado oil or high temp oil. The oil should give you 1/2 to 1 cm of oil in your pan. Warm oil on medium heat until it reaches frying temp. (To test oil dip a corner of the tortilla into oil and see if it starts to bubble).

<h5 class="mb-1">Step 9</h5>
Place tortilla in oil for 10-20 seconds per side. You want to see the tortilla start to turn golden brown before flipping and repeating on the other side.

<h5 class="mb-1">
Once golden brown on both sides, pull tortilla out of oil and place on a wire cooling rack. I place my cooling rack over the sink, so all the oil can drip into the sink.

### Koala Mama Notes:
- **For a sweet treat**: Sprinkle some cinnamon and add maple syrup on a freshly fried tortilla. Trust me! 
- This pairs well with <a href="">crock pot black beans</a>!


**Enjoy!**
